KGAT_e83b2b9850075b8bace9d003cd033c37

//Add in ReadME
Decision locked (don’t revisit)

Use only:

text (optionally title + text later)

Ignore completely:

subject

date

You can mention this explicitly in README later — that’s a plus. 	

When you multiply them TF x IDF, words that are 
frequent in one document but rare in others get the highest scores.

ere is why TF-IDF is the better partner for Logistic Regression:

Noise Reduction: It automatically "mutes" stop words (like "a", "an", "the") without you having to manually delete them. This allows Logistic Regression to focus its weights on descriptive words like "excellent," "broken," or "fraud."


Normalizes Length: If one document is 10 words long and another is 1,000, raw counts would make the longer document seem more "important." TF-IDF normalizes the scores so the length doesn't bias the model.

Efficiency: Logistic Regression works exceptionally well with sparse matrices (matrices full of zeros), which is exactly what TF-IDF produces.

Interpretability: After training, you can look at the Logistic Regression coefficients. Because of TF-IDF, the highest positive weights will correspond to the most "defining" words for that category (e.g., in sentiment analysis, the word "amazing" will have a high TF-IDF score and thus a high model weight).


***tf-idf with lstm***

We can’t use TF-IDF with an LSTM because TF-IDF produces a single, order-agnostic document vector, whereas an LSTM requires an ordered sequence of token representations to model temporal dependencies. TF-IDF removes the time dimension that LSTMs are designed to learn from.



Embeddings : Embeddings turn words into vectors; LSTMs turn a sequence of word vectors into a context-aware representation.
	     Embeddings learn semantic relationships between words based on context, not explicit frequency counts.

Output of embedding layer:
Shape: (batch_size, seq_len, embed_dim)
Example: (32, 300, 100)
Dtype: float

tokens
 → embeddings
 → LSTM
 → linear layer
 → prediction
 → loss

Backward pass:
loss
 ← linear layer weights
 ← LSTM weights
 ← embedding weight

embeddings are one place where learning happens

but not the only place

Embeddings are just the first trainable layer.

gradient descent flows through embeddings and gradients need continuous values so embeddings are float values.

Last hidden state of LSTM is  :A single vector that summarizes the entire sequence, conditioned on word order and context.

LSTM pipeline : 
text
 ↓
token IDs (batch, seq_len)
 ↓
embeddings (batch, seq_len, embed_dim)
 ↓
LSTM
 ↓
last hidden state (batch, hidden_dim)
 ↓
linear layer
 ↓
prediction

(v1,v2)->(v1,v2,v3)->(v1,v3)    v1 : batch size v2 : total number of words or iterations v3 : n_dimensions or features
				v2 does not get vanished after LSTM, it get folded into a hidden state and hence, invisible. 
				Its not discarded but summarized into the hidden state.



LSTM

takes a word vector (from embeddings)

combines it with its previous internal state

produces a new internal state


The trainable parameters of the LSTM live inside the LSTM layer, and they are updated during backpropagation just like embedding weights.


Important:

the same LSTM parameters are reused at every time step

gradients accumulate across all 300 steps

parameters update once per batch


Code pipeline :

Dataset (1 sample)
→ token_ids: (seq_len,)        ← 1D
↓
DataLoader (batching)
→ batch_x: (batch_size, seq_len) ← 2D
↓
Embedding
→ (batch_size, seq_len, embed_dim) ← 3D
↓
LSTM

The Dataset takes raw text and labels and returns token IDs and labels as tensors.
The DataLoader batches them.
The Model takes token IDs, converts them to vectors using embeddings, processes them with LSTM, and outputs logits.



Raw text + label
   ↓
Dataset
   → tokenize text
   → truncate / pad
   → return (token_ids, label)
   ↓
DataLoader
   → batch samples
   → (batch_size, seq_len)
   ↓
Model
   → Embedding (learnable)
   → LSTM (learnable)
   → Classifier


forward pipeline

batch_x (32, 300)           ← token IDs
↓
Embedding
↓
embedded_x (32, 300, 100)
↓
LSTM
↓
h_n[0] (32, 128)
↓
Linear
↓
logits (32, 1)








